# Install

`npm i docsify-cli -g`

`docsify serve ./nypl-design-system-docs`

## Blue Skies
The follow is a list of things we'd like this documentation site to accomplish or be capable of.

- Site should be searchable
- Site should be editable
- Site should have a table of all of the components with their statuses (in-progress, in-review, complete), and the implementation libraries' statuses (Twig template, React component, ERB template)

#### Header
| UX       | Accessibility | DT: Twig | DT: React   | DT: ERB   |
|----------|---------------|----------|-------------|-----------|
| Complete | Complete      | Complete | Out of Date | Not Built |
|          |               |          |             |           |
- Site should have authorship data, last revision date(s) on files, and descriptions of changes made (such as a git commit)
- Site should have roles so that certain users can lock components and their documentation to prevent edits unless author has a certain role
- In-progress components should have a working draft that is still visible on the site
- We should be able to see everywhere a component is used—for example, ResearchNow has a section that pulls in dynamically all of the components it is using for QA to be able to see all of that information in one place
- Site should have an intro page and a Getting Started Guide
- Components should display the relationships of where they are used and link back to their lower-level functional requirements (e.g., "Event Status Bar" uses "Button", link to the button component to see its requirements)
- Components should have: link to Figma instance for designers, IA (functional specs and accessibility), look & feel, their status, a built and interactive display of the component in-action, and the numbered documentation that Ellen created listing functional requirements.
- We should be able to number the components on the page in our documentation site to write documentation for them. This should automatically add the number to that component in Figma.

| ID | Template ID | Module ID | Order # | Document Field |
|----|-------------|-----------|---------|----------------|
|    |             |           |         |                |

Ideation/Product >> UX/Prototype >> Design Technology (templates, React components) >> Version Update >> Committing back to the library

## Draft - Database
I am using the word component to refer to atoms, molecules, and organisms in our design system.

### Fields
- **Template ID**: This is a unique identifier generated by the db.
- **Component id: This may be an atom, molecule, or organism; it maps to a component id from the  component table. Module UUID maps to our controled vocabulary of ids usind abbreviations and numbers, ex. OG-002.
- **Order Number**: This is meaningful, it maps to tab/reading/HTML order. It is also the order things will appear in mobile.
- **Documentation ID**: This is an id that ties together a template, a component, and the documentation text
- **Project ID**: This is a unique identifier generated by the db.
- **Project Name**: This is the name of the project, ex "Shared Collection Catalog". For NYPL.org reno, projects would map to sections of the site ex: "NYPL - Locations" or "NYPL - Research."
- **Documentation Field Type**: This is a controlled vocabulary, right now it is: description, rules, accessibility, source
- **Documentation Field**: This is a field with documentation notes. It is a markdown file to allow for some formatting like including code snippits like an HTML element. 
- **Component Name**: This is the human readable name of a component, ex "Footer"
- **Component Type**: Right now these are: Atom, molecule, organism

### Template Table
Fields:
- Template ID
- Component UUID
- Order Number
- Documentation ID

### Project Table
This table inventories active project ids and names.
Fields:
- Project ID
- Project Name
Project ID and Project Name have a 1-1 relationship.

### Project and Template Table
This table inventories which templates belong to which projects.

Fields:
- Project ID
- Template ID 
One project ID may hae many Template IDs. One Template ID has only one Project ID.

### Template and Component Table
This table inventories which components belong to which templates.

Fields:
- Template ID
- Component ID 
Template ID and Component ID have a many to many relationship.

### Component Table
This is the inventory of components, ids, name, and types.

Fields
- Component IDs
- Component Name
- Component Type

Component IDs and Component Names have a one to many relationship. A component name has one component type.


### Documentation Table

Fields:
- Documentation ID
- Documentation Field Type
- Documentation Field

## Open Issues
- How do we handle JavaScript?

## Figma Plugins
- [Interplay](https://www.figma.com/c/plugin/736368164448889527/Interplay): Interplay connects with your design system code repository to let you access and use your design system code components right within Figma. I don't know if this would be useful.
- [Google Sheets Sync](https://www.figma.com/c/plugin/735770583268406934/Google-sheets-sync): Sync content from Google Sheets directly into your Figma file. This might be helpful for updating names.
- [Focus Orderer](https://www.figma.com/c/plugin/731310036968334777/Focus-Orderer): Quickly annotate your designs’ focus / tab order flow. Intriguing for Willa, potentially.
- [Layer Names Transform](https://www.figma.com/c/plugin/734746297902924375/Layer-Names-Transfom): This plugin will help you to quickly transform the names of your layers.
